# GIAPII k12
## Guidelines for Individualized Academic Planning and ITS Implementation for K-12 Students: a Resource Guide

https://giappi-k12.b4a.app/

## Interface as a Guide for Planning an Individualized Academic Curriculum.
* This resource provides a set of guidelines to individualize a student’s education plan.
* These guidelines will facilitate an academic curriculum appropriate to the student’s unique needs. 
* Additionally, the guidelines will foster instructors (private tutors, parents, teachers) and students to set periodic and measurable goals in both education and personal growth.

[CS6460_Final Project_Reference Page_Thomas Pizzone_Summer 2022_v1.pdf](https://github.com/consistentlyonpoint/giappi-k12/files/15289144/CS6460_Final.Project_Reference.Page_Thomas.Pizzone_Summer.2022_v1.pdf)

### Backround Information: Intelligent Tutoring Systems
Research for the efficacy of ITS as an educational tool has not been limited to the analysis of test scores. ITS developers have built ITS software and proposed ITS methodologies which address learning styles, personality types, emotion, metacognitive change. From (Conati, 2009), a human or artificial intelligent tutors must possess 3 knowledge bases: “(i) knowledge about the target instructional domain, (ii) knowledge about the student, and (iii) knowledge about the relevant pedagogical strategies”. Conati defines a fourth knowledge field “communication knowledge”, meaning, how to present the information. With domain and communication knowledge, an ITS can present information and problem statements to students according to the students’ abilities and preferences. Researchers have worked on ITS which are capable of assessing and developing a students meta-cognitive ability. (Flavell 1976) defines meta-cognition as “one’s knowledge concerning one’s own cognitive processes and products or anything related to them”. Within a students’ meta-cognitive ability are their skills of self-monitoring, self-explanation, learning from example, and effective help seeking. The ACE (Adaptive Coach for Exploration) ITS, which is used by students for mathematical functions, was developed from Conati to foster user exploration. ACE will respond to the students’ inputs and intervene when an input is suboptimal. Advancements in the field of cognitive science offer approaches for ITS developers to best foster meta-cognitive skills.

The use of an ITS to improve a students’ meta-cognition was found to be a lasting benefit. (Roll et al, 2011) researched how an ITS can improve students’ help-seeking abilities. Their research encompassed two studies which were designed to evaluate students’ behaviors with regard to help-seeking as a function of “The Help Tutor”, an ITA (intelligent tutor agent). This ITA was integrated into a commercial ITS for geometry, “Geometry Cognitive Tutor”. In the first study, the researchers observed an improvement in the students’ desire to seek help, and in the second study, they found that this behavior was transferable to study areas in which the ITA was not implemented. The work of (Roll et al, 2006) / (Roll et al, 2011) expanded on the meta-cognitive impact of an ITS. The systems are not only able to “tutor”, but through tutoring, they can enforce positive education habits, which will serve students beyond a single course.
